---
layout: page
short-title: "Philosophy"
title: "Teaching Philosophy"
menu: true
permalink: /philosophy/
order: 1
---

My online teaching is grounded by three guiding principles. Firstly, to take advantage of the capabilities of the web rather than to see it as a limtation. Secondly, I try to create connections among the students, something that can be difficult without a shared physical space. And thirdly—this goes for all my teaching, not just online teaching—I aim to push the boundaries of my discipline of music theory to accommodate diverse perspectives and musical repertoire.

I believe the web to be an incredible medium for communicating with my students effectively. My discipline is music theory, and I typically teach students how to listen closely to music and think deeply about its inner workings. As such, it's always astounded me that so many music theorists and pedagogues write and publish paper books and textbooks. Of course music may be rendered in print in the form of Western musical notation, and these publications come with companion websites with recordings of the relevant music. But in my view, this subject matter is best presented in a web-first format. This is why I **co-authored an online and open access music theory textbook** that enhances our text explanations with music notation examples with interactive playback, interactive H5P content, video, audio, and image. Assignments are all available as both PDFs and editable formats (e.g., DOCX). And of course the book is also accessible and responsive for phones and other devices.

While online learning environments can easily isolate students, I instead leverage the many collaborative technologies available to help students work directly with one another even in an online context. **I've found Microsoft Teams to be extremely effective in this regard.** I use Teams to run our synchronous course meetings, which automatically saves the chat and all file uploads for students to access later at any time in the shared file system. I keep the General channel for announcements and official class meetings, but set up other important channels: an Introductions channel; a Homework Help channel, where students can ask for help and get answers from myself as well as their classmates;a Reading Respones channel for weekly homework written responses; collaboration channels for group projects; and an Off-Topic channel for posting memes, fun facts, performance announcements, and other materials not strictly related to coursework. Such things can be accomplished on an LMS with discussion board posts, but I've found that Teams encourages more natural conversation and collaboration among students, thanks to the ease of use, ability to easily respond with images, and emoji reactions. These little touches help class interactions feel much more authentic and provide more ways for students to interact and participate.

In all my courses, whether online or not, I spend substantial energy ensuring that I'm presenting a broad and inclusive understanding of the field of music theory. Since I assume my readers will not be familiar with the norms and history of the field of music theory: when musicians are trained in music theory and analysis, they typically learn about chords and musical form (organization), and the repertoire they practice on is usually Western art music written during the 18th and 19th centuries, especially in Germanic countries (think Bach, Beethoven, and Brahms). While harmony and form are quite powerful for yielding deep understanding of this repertoire, I teach an expanded music-theoretical toolbox so that more repertoires can be understood with equal depth: particularly **popular music, music and multimedia, and jazz**. This concept was the reason I overhauled the undergraduate music theory curriculum here at GMU to follow a cutting-edge "modular" design rather than a traditional "sequential" design. I've become known in the field as a specialist in innovative pedagogy and curricula, as evidenced by my pedagogy publications and invited talks and workshops given at other schools and national conferences.

In this portfolio, I'll present together all the work I do that I believe qualifies as "online teaching": my open access textbook _Open Music Theory_, my graduate seminars, my mentorship and supervisory role as Director of Music Theory, and my pedagagically-oriented research and publications. Throughout please take note of the care with which I've designed my online materials and collaborative learning spaces, as well as my broad conception of what music theory can and should be.
