For me, online teaching is about more than any one specific class; as you browse my portfolio, I hope you'll see that I believe the web to be an incredible medium for communicating with my students effectively. My discipline is music theory, and I typically teach students how to listen closely to music and think deeply about its inner workings. As such, it's always astounded me that so many music theorists and pedagogues write and publish paper books and textbooks. Of course music may be rendered in print in the form of Western musical notation, and these publications come with companion websites with recordings of the relevant music. But in my view, this subject matter is best presented in a web-first format. Thus, online teaching is perhaps for me a smaller leap than for professors in other disciplines.

My online teaching is grounded by three guiding principles. Firstly, to take advantage of the capabilities of the web rather than to see it as a limtation. Secondly, I try to create connections among the students, something that can be difficult without a shared physical space. And thirdly—this goes for all my teaching, not just online teaching—I aim to push the boundaries of my discipline of music theory to accommodate diverse perspectives and musical repertoire.

In this teaching philosophy, I'll thread together all the work I do that I believe qualifies as "online teaching." I'll begin by discussing my co-authored natively online open acces textbook, _Open Music Theory_, which I consider my pinnacle achievement as well as an ongoing labor of love. Then I will talk about my graduate teaching, the vast majority of which occurs online. I've also taken on a substantial mentorship and supervisory role as Director of Music Theory, which has led me to develop online content for GMU students that exists outside of the classes I teach. I then move to my pedagagically-oriented research and publications. I will also discuss my interest in web development, which has enabled me to be a more effective online pedagogue.

### Graduate teaching online

I have found teaching at the graduate level to be the best opportunity to open students to a new perspective on what music theory and analysis can be. Most of my graduate seminars deal with new(er) subfields of music theory: popular music, timbre, and music and media. Students are often surprised to learn what analysts have to say on music from these new angles, because usually they think of theory as equivalent to Roman numeral analysis. Even when I taught a seminar on Classical form, I strove to push the boundaries a little by incorporating midterm and final projects on 18th-century music by marginalized composers (in this context, women and people of color), so students weren’t only studying Mozart, Haydn, and Beethoven.

The course I’ve taught the most is Analytical Techniques, which provides a broad overview of several different methodologies for analysis meant to encompass a wide range of repertoires (see Calendar of Topics). Its structure has evolved over the years as it’s moved from an in-person class to an asynchronous online course. In this course in particular, I had to dial in the amount and type of work I was asking students to do. First, I had only readings and a final project; students found they did not get enough practice analyzing. Then I added analysis assignments, and students felt overwhelmed. I’ve finally settled on asking students to do five out of ten total analysis assignments: two are required for all, and the others are up to them to select. They are still expected to read each week. Just as in my seminars, in Analytical Techniques, I hope to show students that theory is useful for more than analyzing the harmony of pieces by a handful of composers.

### Mason’s Modular Theory Core

After my first year at Mason, I gathered a team of four faculty—Elaine Rendler, Tom Owens, June Huang, and myself—to apply for a Curriculum Impact Grant; we won $31,000 to assist our efforts. My main goal was to shift the curriculum to a modular approach, which I had brainstormed with a music theorist at another institution (Andrew Gades). The germ of the idea was to replace the traditional “Theory III” course, focused on chromatic harmony and form in nineteenth-century Western art music (WAM), with a course teaching similar topics through popular music. By using popular music as the repertoire instead of WAM, the skills required to understand the concepts shift: students don’t need the same depth of knowledge of voice leading or score reading, since popular music is usually not notated except with chord symbols. And then, if Theory III doesn’t rely so heavily on concepts studied in Theory II, perhaps students can skip straight from I to III if they want. Theory IV was always quite detached from the preceding courses, since it traditionally focuses on atonal music and other techniques of the twentieth century, so it too could be taken after Theory I. In short: in this modular curriculum, all students would take Theory I, and then they could choose to take any of the next theory classes: Theory II, Theory III, or Theory IV—and because these sequential numbers no longer reflected a required order, we also renamed the courses to highlight their repertoire-based scope.

I discuss my actual teaching of this curriculum further below (Undergraduate Teaching), but overall, I feel this new curriculum better serves Mason’s unique undergraduate music major population, which contains music technology majors, music education majors, and performance majors in equal proportion. The prior curriculum focused exclusively on WAM, and while this served the classical-focused performance majors well, the music technology majors—who are more likely to specialize in audio production or pop songwriting—were left to fill in the gaps between WAM and pop music on their own. A modular curriculum allows us to have it both ways: students choose which courses they need for their education (in consultation with advisors, of course).

I led this team of faculty members in designing this new core curriculum during a series of meetings throughout the summer. As the other theory instructor, Prof. Rendler was the most involved in determining course content; at her advising, we added an upper-level Baroque and Classical forms course to better round out a WAM-focused education. Prof. Huang, as a performance faculty member, ensured that clear applications to performance were at the forefront of our student learning objectives. Prof. Owens, as Director of Undergraduate Studies, helped navigate the administrative aspects of curriculum design.

I presented our work at the Pedagogy into Practice conference, the national music theory pedagogy conference, in 2019; shortly after that, I published the talk as an article in Engaging Students. These publications have generated interest nationwide in Mason’s approach to theory: I was solicited by the Music Theory Society of New York State to lead a graduate student workshop on this article (I unfortunately had to decline), and in my Additional Materials in Support of Teaching, readers can find additional letters from faculty requesting my advice on implementing this curriculum.

I have spent some time working with public music theory (that is, music theory geared toward non-specialist audiences) on Reddit, which is the basis for my coauthored book chapter “/r/musictheory: Making Music Theory on Reddit” (in The Oxford Handbook of Public Music Theory, 2022). We describe the subreddit as a place where learning is extensively democratized, without fixed teacher/student roles, for better and worse. While this format leads to uniquely productive learning experiences and encourages inquiry into repertoires outside what is typically studied in a university theory curriculum, we find that academic music theory’s white racial frame is reproduced even in this grassroots environment.

Finally, I have also published research in music theory pedagogy. In the article “Bespoke Music Theory: A Modular Core Curriculum Designed for Audio Engineers, Classical Violinists, and Everyone in Between” (Engaging Students, 2019), where I explain my overhaul of the curriculum at Mason to replace a traditional theory sequence with a more flexible approach that accommodates Mason’s unique population. Further, I am one of the authors of the Open Music Theory textbook. As pedagogical publications, these are discussed further under Teaching and Mentoring below.
